So, yeah, super straightforward.
Our job is to find the button,
create an observable
from the button,
subscribe it to the button.
And then upon subscribing,
whenever we hear an event,
add a very simple notification to the DOM.
So, we know that from event.
Can take an HTML element and
then what we wanna listen for.
Now the interesting part here is
just like an event listener will
theoretically retrofitted to the event
whether or not you store in a variable or
not, and then you have to do
all that stuff like cool.
If you ever want to remove
that event listener,
you better have stored that function
into a variable, so then you can remove
the reference to that function from the
event listener, so on and so forth, right?
From event seeks to protect you from all
of that fun stuff with event listeners and
kind of encapsulate that.
So now you can create your stream.
You can subscribe and unsubscribe as
its own separate, then you'll get
back an object that will allow you
to unsubscribe so on and so forth.
So here, we'll say,
I'll call button clicks,
that seems like a really good name for
this observable.
And so what we'll say is,
we'll subscribe to it in this case.
So button clicks, and will subscribe.
And we'll say, when that happens,
we want to add the message to the Dom.
Cool, all right, and so
let's just make sure that, that works.
So we'll go here to generate observables
from events except I will use the one
that is local cuz I use production 1,
what's gonna happen and we can see,
we get what we think we're gonna get
here which is when the click happens,
it will go ahead and
run the listener, right?
We could theoretically take this and
do other things with it as well.
So if we wanted to go in here and
we wanted to say, okay,
not only that, but I would also,
log it to the console or
we could even alert, yeah,
let's alert, why not.
Alright, so
we have one stream of events happening and
then we can subscribe 2 to
multiple things in this case.
So now we'll go ahead, we'll refresh,
you can see that I get the alert and
also I get the notification
on the page as well.
So as a bunch of other things that
we'll do as time goes on like clearly
the ability to click buttons and interact
with the UI is a thing that is kind
of core to what we all do,
building user interfaces.
So we will kind of play with
this more in a little bit.
But right now,
we're kind of just building up that
tool set of fundamentals in this case.